Update securing.markdown (#16699)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/configuration/securing.markdown

* **Check [Home Assistant Alerts](https://alerts.home-assistant.io/).** An informed user is able to make better decisions than an uninformed user.
* **Read the [Release Notes](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/releases/).**  Breaking changes can occur during updates and the release notes are Home Assistant's way of notifying you of these changes.
* **Perform [Snapshots](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#snapshots).**  Snapshots are a quick way to get your system back up and running in the event of failure.
* **Update  [Encryption Certificates](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access).** TLS certs expire on a regular basis. Once expired your browser will not recognize them as valid. |
* **Ensure all add-ons are updated.**  Running old versions of add-ons can lead to exploitable vulnerabilities which are not present in current versions.
* **Prune Integrations/add-ons.** Remove unused Integrations and add-ons to reduce your risk of exposure.

## Remote Access

If you want secure remote access, the easiest option is to use [Home Assistant cloud](/cloud/) by which you also [support](https://www.nabucasa.com/about) the founders of Home Assistant.

> To expose your instance to the internet, use a [VPN](https://pivpn.dev/), or an [SSH tunnel](/blog/2017/11/02/secure-shell-tunnel/). Make sure to expose the used port in your router. Other options are to use TLS/SSL via the add-ons [Duck DNS integrating Let's Encrypt](/integrations/duckdns/) or [Let’s Encrypt](/docs/ecosystem/certificates/lets_encrypt/).

Reviewer: are we comfortable recommending PiVPN? I am not familiar with it myself

Author: I'm not familiar with it either.    This was part of the page for a very long time.  Simply reorganized.     As for my review, I haven't checked that app out.  Although  I might recommend some SSH Tunnel options:
**For android**
* [SSH Tunnel](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=id.brooboox.sshtunnelmaker) for older versions of Android, but it crashes on Android 11.
* [KPN Tunnel](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=kpn.soft.dev.kpntunnel) which works but is difficult to set up and uses non-standard terminology. 

**For Linux and Windows**
* [various options](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-setup-ssh-tunneling/), but each option requires setup each time.

Then we get into non-SSH options and it doesn't feel right to start talking about SSH options for tunneling without talking about standard PPTP, L2TP/IPSec/ OpenVPN, SSTP and others...  In the end, I decided the pre-established advice was best.

What is your suggestion?

Reviewer: I missed the original version when I was reviewing, my mistake. Let's leave it as is, the focus of this PR is on making the doc more comprehensive and better organized, not making better third party recommendations.

---
title: "Standard Security Procedures"
description: "Instructions on how to secure your Home Assistant installation."
---

One major advantage of Home Assistant is that it is not dependent on cloud services. Unlike other cloud-based solutions, with Home Assistant, you are in control of your own data. The decisions you make will affect your security and your privacy. Security applies in all instances. Even if you are only using Home Assistant on a local network, you should take steps to secure your instance.

<div class="info">
Disclaimer: Home Assistant is not your security advisor. Due to continually changing threat landscapes and individual configurations we recommend best practices. The advice given here should be considered as a security baseline and should not represent your entire security profile.
</div>

## Initial Setup

After installation we strongly recommend you perform the following tasks before using the system.

> * **Set up [encrypted access](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access)**.  Set up HTTPS to encrypt your communication. HTTP will allow eavesdropping on your passwords and other communications.  Make sure it says "https" for your external URL.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Set up [encrypted access](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access)**. Set up HTTPS to encrypt your communication. HTTP will allow eavesdropping on your passwords and other communications. Make sure it says "https://" for your external URL.
```

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your general Home Assistant settings.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/general.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/general/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my general badge %}
```

> * **Ensure all [Updates](/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied**. Running older versions of Home Assistant can expose you to vulnerabilities which have been resolved in a newer release but could be exploitable until you update. You can check your version in the Home Assistant Info screen.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Ensure all [Updates](/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied**. Running older versions of Home Assistant can expose you to vulnerabilities that have been resolved in a newer release but could be exploitable until you update. You can check your version in the Home Assistant Info screen.
```

> * **Ensure all [Updates](/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied**. Running older versions of Home Assistant can expose you to vulnerabilities which have been resolved in a newer release but could be exploitable until you update. You can check your version in the Home Assistant Info screen.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Ensure all [Updates](/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied**. Running older versions of Home Assistant can expose you to vulnerabilities that have been resolved in a newer release but could be exploitable until you update. You can check your version in the Home Assistant Info screen.
```

Author: fixed.

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your Home Assistant version information.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/info.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/info/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my info badge %}
```

> * **Secure all access methods**.  Some installation methods have dependencies on Terminals, SSH and other access methods. It is best to remove or secure these access methods when unused or not needed.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Secure all access methods**. Some installation methods have dependencies on Terminals, SSH and other access methods. It is best to remove or secure these access methods when unused or not needed.  
```

## Configuration Changes

Configuration changes carry risk. These risks can be reduced by performing the following tasks.

> * **Perform pre- and post-[Snapshots](/common-tasks/os/#snapshots).** In the event a configuration change needs to be reverted, you can easily revert using snapshots.<br>
> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your Supervisor snapshots.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_snapshots.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_snapshots/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Perform pre- and post-[Snapshots](/common-tasks/os/#snapshots).** In the event a configuration change needs to be reverted, you can easily revert using snapshots.
{% my supervisor_snapshots badge %}
```

> * **Run [configuration checks](/common-tasks/os/#configuration-check).** After making configuration changes, you should ensure your configuration is valid so it will operate as expected.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Run [configuration checks](/common-tasks/os/#configuration-check).** After making configuration changes, you should ensure your configuration is valid so it will operate as expected.
```

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your server controls.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/server_controls.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/server_controls/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my server_controls badge %}
```

> * **Use built-in [secrets](/docs/configuration/secrets/) handling.** When requesting help from the [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/) you will want to share your configuration. Secrets reduces your risk of exposure of sensitive data. Alternatively, many integration support config flow and will accept your password outside of your `configuration.yaml`. Check your integrations to see if they support config flow.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Use built-in [secrets](/docs/configuration/secrets/) handling.** When requesting help from the [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/) you will want to share your configuration. Secrets reduce your risk of exposure of sensitive data. Alternatively, many integrations can be set up via the user interface and will accept your password outside of your `configuration.yaml`. Check your integrations to see if they support this.
```

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your integrations.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/integrations.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/integrations/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my integrations badge %}
```

## Maintenance

> Your system is your own responsibility. You should perform regular [Software Updates](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#update) along with maintenance to ensure your system is secure. Many of these tasks can be automated. Your specific setup will dictate additional tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your system is your own responsibility. You should perform regular [Software Updates](/common-tasks/os/#update) along with maintenance to ensure your system is secure. Many of these tasks can be automated. Your specific setup will dictate additional tasks.
```

> * **Perform [Snapshots](/common-tasks/os/#snapshots).**  Snapshots are a quick way to get your system back up and running in the event of failure.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Perform [Snapshots](/common-tasks/os/#snapshots).** Snapshots are a quick way to get your system back up and running in the event of failure.
```

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your Supervisor snapshots.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_snapshots.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_snapshots/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my supervisor_snapshots badge %}
```

* **Check [Home Assistant Alerts](https://alerts.home-assistant.io/).** An informed user is able to make better decisions than an uninformed user.

> * **Read the [Release Notes](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/releases/).**  Breaking changes can occur during updates and the release notes are Home Assistant's way of notifying you of these changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Read the [Release Notes](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/releases/).** Breaking changes can occur during updates and the release notes are Home Assistant's way of notifying you of these changes.
```

> * **Update  [Encryption Certificates](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access).** TLS certs expire on a regular basis. Once expired your browser will not recognize them as valid. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Update [Encryption Certificates](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access).** TLS certs expire on a regular basis. Once expired your browser will not recognize them as valid.
```

> * **Ensure all add-ons are updated.**  Running old versions of add-ons can lead to exploitable vulnerabilities which are not present in current versions.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Ensure all add-ons are updated.** Running old versions of add-ons can lead to exploitable vulnerabilities which are not present in current versions.
```

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your Supervisor dashboard.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my supervisor badge %}
```

> * **Prune Integrations/add-ons.** Remove unused Integrations and add-ons to reduce your risk of exposure.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Prune Integrations/add-ons.** Remove unused Integrations and add-ons to reduce your risk of exposure.
```

> [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your Supervisor dashboard.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% my supervisor badge %}
```

## Data/Privacy Recovery

> Most problems with Home Assistant can be solved by restoring data from a point in time where the problem didn't exist. There are many problems which restoring cannot fix and every problem has a proper solution, given ample planning and understanding. While it is impossible to provide all details and scenarios given individual user configurations, network environments, physical access to machines and other such variables, we can only provide a high-level overview of recovery techniques.  As in all scenarios, [Home Assistant Alerts](https://alerts.home-assistant.io/) and your local requirements will provide more information than the generic advice given below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most problems with Home Assistant can be solved by restoring data from a point in time where the problem didn't exist. There are many problems which restoring cannot fix and every problem has a proper solution, given ample planning and understanding. While it is impossible to provide all details and scenarios given individual user configurations, network environments, physical access to machines and other such variables, we can only provide a high-level overview of recovery techniques. As in all scenarios, [Home Assistant Alerts](https://alerts.home-assistant.io/) and your local requirements will provide more information than the generic advice given below.
```

### Disaster Recovery

| issue type | Solution|
|---|---|
| Physical damage | [Replace hardware](https://www.home-assistant.io/installation/), [restore a backup](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#restoring-a-snapshot-on-a-new-install). |
| Configuration issue | [restore a backup](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#restoring-a-snapshot-on-a-new-install).|

### Data Leakage Recovery

| issue type | Solution|
|---|---|
| Cloud Service Data Breach | Change Cloud Service authentication. |

> | Local Home Assistant Data Breach | [Change Home Assistant authentication](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/locked_out/#home-assistant-including-supervised) and  [restore a backup](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#restoring-a-snapshot-on-a-new-install). |

Reviewer 2: Let's swap those for the once doing it in that order 😁 

```suggestion
| Local Home Assistant Data Breach | [Restore a backup](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#restoring-a-snapshot-on-a-new-install) and [change Home Assistant authentication](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/locked_out/#home-assistant-including-supervised) |
```

### Off-Site backups

> On-site/on-device backups are fast, cheap and easy, but in the event of physical damage to your hardware such as natural disaster, you may not have access to any on-site data.  It is recommended to store, at least some, backups off-site.  You can choose USB sticks, hard drives, a cloud provider, multiple providers, or any method to physically transport the data to a separate and secure location.  Any and all methods of storage can be used in your Backup Rotation Scheme. You can find multiple add-ons to [assist with off-site backup in the forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/search?q=tag%3Ahassio-addon%20backup%20).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On-site/on-device backups are fast, cheap and easy, but in the event of physical damage to your hardware such as a natural disaster, you may not have access to any on-site data. It is recommended to store, at least some, backups off-site. You can choose USB sticks, hard drives, a cloud provider, multiple providers, or any method to physically transport the data to a separate and secure location. Any and all methods of storage can be used in your Backup Rotation Scheme. You can find multiple add-ons to [assist with off-site backup in the forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/search?q=tag%3Ahassio-addon%20backup%20).
```

### Backup Rotation Scheme

> Nobody has unlimited storage. Disks can fill up, and cloud storage can be expensive. Because Home Assistant is intended to be the only solution you will ever need, eventually you will run out of space. The solution to balancing the storage requirements and duration of backups is a proper [Backup Rotation Scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup_rotation_scheme). A good rotation scheme, like [daily, weekly, monthly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup_rotation_scheme#Grandfather-father-son), will ensure you have access to the latest backups and you are able to locate a backup prior to any issue you may encounter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nobody has unlimited storage. Disks can fill up, and cloud storage can be expensive. Because Home Assistant is intended to be the only solution you will ever need, eventually, you will run out of space. The solution to balancing the storage requirements and duration of backups is a proper [Backup Rotation Scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup_rotation_scheme). A good rotation scheme, like [daily, weekly, monthly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup_rotation_scheme#Grandfather-father-son), will ensure you have access to the latest backups and you are able to locate a backup prior to any issue you may encounter.
```

## Remote Access

If you want secure remote access, the easiest option is to use [Home Assistant cloud](/cloud/) by which you also [support](https://www.nabucasa.com/about) the founders of Home Assistant.

> To expose your instance to the internet, use a [VPN](https://pivpn.dev/), or an [SSH tunnel](/blog/2017/11/02/secure-shell-tunnel/). Make sure to expose the used port in your router. Other options are to use TLS/SSL via the add-ons [Duck DNS integrating Let's Encrypt](/integrations/duckdns/) or [Let’s Encrypt](/docs/ecosystem/certificates/lets_encrypt/).

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should recommend anything at this point. 

`/docs/ecosystem/certificates/lets_encrypt/` -> Does not exist in our docs anymore and should've removed.

Author: Duck DNS is still supported.  I'd say it would be better to leave it because otherwise we are recommending Nabu Casa and nothing else, while the first paragraph says it doesn't depend on a cloud service.  I kinda like the idea of leaving this as-is because it shows the official Nabu Casa way and then the community way since the Let's Encrypt link directs to community.

Reviewer 2: We do not support community methods and should therefor not be in our documentation.

description: "Instructions on how to secure your Home Assistant installation."
---

> One major advantage of Home Assistant is that it is not dependent on cloud services.  By default, you are in control of your data. The decisions you make will affect your security and your privacy.  We take your privacy and security seriously.  Because of this, even if you are only using Home Assistant on a local network, you should take steps to secure your instance.

Reviewer: I am not sure what the statement `We take your privacy and security seriously` adds to this paragraph, it has nothing to do with the rest of the paragraph which is a long (but fair) way of saying your instance is only as secure as you make it. I personally don't think it is needed here.

Reviewer 2: I agree I don't see the relation in this paragraph with that sentence.

Author: This is an elaboration on the original paragraph.  The purpose is to establish a justification for us to give advice.  Additionally it informs the user that we are not providing an inherently insecure system, but it does require work on their part to ensure they maintain their privacy and security which is so dear to us.   

It's the first paragraph on a security recommendations page.  We must establish a posture.  I'll see what I can do to rework or split it.   These are all very important concepts to relay.

Reviewer: `We must establish a posture.` with respect, says who? If it really matters, then maybe it deserves a separate paragraph. The value of it does not change the fact that it's awkwardly inserted into the paragraph as is

Author: Verbiage modified outside tolerance of original conversation.

> One major advantage of Home Assistant is that it is not dependent on cloud services.  By default, you are in control of your data. The decisions you make will affect your security and your privacy.  We take your privacy and security seriously.  Because of this, even if you are only using Home Assistant on a local network, you should take steps to secure your instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One major advantage of Home Assistant is that it is not dependent on cloud services. By default, you are in control of your data. The decisions you make will affect your security and your privacy.  We take your privacy and security seriously. Because of this, even if you are only using Home Assistant on a local network, you should take steps to secure your instance.
```

> <div class='info'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="info">
```

> Disclaimer: Home Assistant is not your security advisor.  Due to continually changing threat landscapes and individual configurations we recommend best practices.  The advice given here should be considered as a security baseline and should not represent your entire security profile.  

Reviewer 2: It might be worth linking to our software license? As that waivers liability and warrantees.

```suggestion
Disclaimer: Home Assistant is not your security advisor. Due to continually changing threat landscapes and individual configurations we recommend best practices. The advice given here should be considered as a security baseline and should not represent your entire security profile.
```

</div>

### Initial Setup

> After installation we strongly recommend you perform the following tasks before using the system.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After installation we strongly recommend you perform the following tasks before using the system.
```

> | Task | Justification |

Reviewer 2: These tables contain too much text to be readable on mobile devices. Let's not use tables for this.

Author: Yes. I am seeing that.  Will be fixed.

| --- | --- |

> | Setup [encrypted remote access](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access). | Setup HTTPS to encrypt your communication.  HTTP will allow eavesdropping on your passwords. |
> | Secure [access methods](docs/configuration/securing/#extras-for-manual-installations) | Certain installation methods have dependencies on SSH and other access methods. It is best to remove or secure these. |

Reviewer 2: I think we should discourage the use of remote access. Writing it like so, might people look into this while they might even not need it. From previous experience on similar texts, we know people will do this because it is written here, regardless if it applies to them or not.

```suggestion
| Set up [encrypted remote access](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access). | Setup HTTPS to encrypt your communication. HTTP will allow eavesdropping on your passwords. |
| Secure [access methods](docs/configuration/securing/#extras-for-manual-installations) | Certain installation methods have dependencies on SSH and other access methods. It is best to remove or secure these. |
```

Author: The remote access instructions refer to Nabu Casa and other items on the same page.  Maybe we should look at elaboration in that section to ensure the user understands risk vs rewards.   Or we can always simply drop the "remote" verbiage to set up encrypted access.  It's recommended to use encryption even if it's on your LAN.

Reviewer 2: > It's recommended to use encryption even if it's on your LAN.

I'm voting that out of scope for our documentation. It will cause a magnitude of problems most people can't deal with. I won't allow writing documentation that will drive people into issues we have to deal with as a project.

> | Ensure all [Updates](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied. | Running older versions of Home Assistant can provide vulnerabilities which may be exploitable. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ensure all [Updates](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied. | Running older versions of Home Assistant can expose you to old vulnerabilities which have been resolved in a newer release but could be exploitable until you update. |
```

Author: This ruins the table.  I tried to keep it as short as possible.

Reviewer: OK, I think `expose you to` is better than `provide`, the connotation doesn't make sense. The rest is not strictly necessary

Author: Depends on your approach.  Vulnerabilities are provided to a hacker.  You provide them by failing to update.  The vulnerabilities are provided by the system to the hacker for exploitation.

Reviewer: I see what you are getting at. I still think `expose you to` is better than `provide`, and all of this makes it sound like there are definitely vulnerabilities in older versions of HA. The only one I am aware of in recent memory was in January.

Author: There are definitely vulnerabilities.  There is no penetration testing program nor security documentation defining what is allowed and what is not.   Projects don't get this large and have 2-vulerabilities.  There is no auditing project which I'm aware of.  It's just people continuously making good decisions.   

There's nothing wrong with that.  Nothing at all.  But there's no real focus on security. As a security engineer who has looked at add-ons and a bit in supervisor, I can tell you that I'm talking no less than 10-active vulnerabilities right now and potentially thousands depending on integrations.   But it depends on the definition of user. It also depends on what people consider vulnerabilities. 

eg.  Addons start with security rating of 5.  With a 5 rating, I can wreck your entire instance, all zeros on your drive.   eg. With a 5-rating, I can make an addon which will duplicate your Home Assistant to my server.   eg. With a 6-rating,  I can inject javascript into your instance to make you perform a backup, download that backup and send it to my server.   eg. With a 6 rating I can change Host-OS configuration settings. 

I mentioned one of these and the response was something about my reputation.   It takes a shift in a project thought process to recognize security.    There are definitely vulnerabilities and they are definitely being addressed as they are recognized.

> | Ensure all [Updates](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied. | Running older versions of Home Assistant can provide vulnerabilities which may be exploitable. |

Reviewer 2: This only covers OS installation types.

Author: Looks like tables messed up the conversation.  Are you talking about:
- Secure Access Methods portion?  There is nothing to secure on HAOS.  The installation media is secure on its own, right?
- Ensure all updates are applied?   It is conceivable that an update is published between installation and first use.
Of course Setup Encrypted Access (now changed) is applicable on all platforms. 

Please elaborate.

> ### Configuration Changes
> Configuration changes carry risk.  These risks can be reduced by performing the following tasks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configuration Changes

Configuration changes carry risk. These risks can be reduced by performing the following tasks. 
```

> | Task | Justification|

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above, lets not use tables here.

| --- | --- |

> | Perform pre- and post-[Snapshots](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#snapshots). | In the event a configuration change needs to be reverted, you can easily revert using snapshots. |

Reviewer: This is good practice but I'm not sure this is relevant to security - the only areas that I can think of where a configuration change could have a security impact is the `homeassistant` and `http` configurations, and those are generally only set up once. Maybe I'm missing something though

Reviewer 2: Additionally, I think we should make clear that reverting/restoring snapshots is not for fixing a security indecent, it is for data recovery. Therefore, I think this is a bit out of scope for this page.

Nevertheless, from that perspective, I think it would be more interesting to provide information on what to do if a security incident occurred.

Author: Backup plans are the responsibility of security.  Security's job is to mitigate risk.  That's what defensive security does. This is 100% in the realm of defensive security.

Reviewer 2: I think you missed the second part of my response.

Author: This is from (ISC)2 Certified Information Systems Security Professional, pg 801
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/527919/108848201-b2d51380-75ae-11eb-9c16-9273f2e654f6.png)

Reviewer 2: I think you need to re-read my response, especially the second sentence:

> Nevertheless, from that perspective, I think it would be more interesting to provide information on what to do if a security incident occurred.

This means, it's OK, but it kinda implies that we might have to explain how to recover from a security incident as well. E.g., how to restore and what to do next.

Author: From Security+, "Security Policies and Procedures"
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/527919/108849456-275c8200-75b0-11eb-8938-776272d5ee9c.png)

Reviewer 2: Please stop with the book, I really don't care about that piece of paper. We are not writing company documentation, but end-user documentation. If you tell them to backup and restore in a security context, I think it is fair to provide some additional instructions on what to do if one has restored after data loss because of a security incident. For example, they might want to evaluate and change their passwords and token.

That is just common sense, don't need a book for that.

Author: Sorry, I was researching and I didn't update the page to see that you had responded.

Author: @frenck  you thumb'd up the OP in this review thread which required the justifications above to demonstrate that it is a security concept. I was not responding to you. Just providing relevant context.

Author: I don't think we can do that here.  There's several categories of responses.   Core/supervisor, integrations, addons, cloud service provider, local access, remote access, DNS/Networking, and other.  The procedures for one would not be effective for another type so it's not something that could be handled on this page.

| Use built-in [secrets](/docs/configuration/secrets/) handling. | When requesting help from the [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/) you will want to share your configuration. Secrets reduces your risk of exposure of sensitive data. |

> | Run [configuration checks](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#configuration-check). | After making configuration changes, you should ensure your configuration is valid so it will operate as expected. | 

Reviewer: Similar to above, this is a good practice but the configuration check won't tell you whether your instance is secured or not. If anything, putting it here may make users think that if their configuration passes checks, that their instance is secure, which is not the case

Reviewer 2: I agree, this has no relation to security or data recovery and creates a possible false sense of security.

Author: It provides a low baseline to detect if the configuration will cause errors.  Errors in the configuration can prevent the system from starting properly.  Running this check can reduce risk, which is the goal of security.

Reviewer 2: This has to be removed it has nothing to do with any of this.

Author: What is the purpose of configuration checks if not to ensure integrity and availability of the system?  https://www.itgovernanceusa.com/blog/how-nist-can-protect-the-cia-triad-including-the-often-overlooked-i-integrity

Author: Maybe I linked to the wrong page?   https://www.home-assistant.io/getting-started/configuration/

Reviewer 2: The configuration check has nothing to do with security. Cannot add anything else. Please remove it.

Author: There are serious problems which can occur due to invalid configuration.    Maybe your system is more fault tolerant.  Mine is not.  I use SSH as my backup.  However, not everyone configures that by default.   

But the stock system using no integrations other than what is recommended on HA.com can have some serious problems leaving the user unable to login.  Please observe these changes which could lead to inability to use my systems. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/527919/108914599-96aa9400-75f9-11eb-9317-d31706093c54.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/527919/108914603-9ad6b180-75f9-11eb-926d-6a9ec5301993.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/527919/108914611-9d390b80-75f9-11eb-89a3-1823519933f2.png)

What is the solution if a user switches to an LDAP solution and deletes all other users, like me, then the system enters safe mode?  One might argue you should have another way to log in, and I'd agree.  But the problem could have been prevented in the first place by using Configuration Checks.

Author: Should this be removed, even though it can save a system from being unusable?

Author: Removed.

> ### Maintenance
> Your system is your own responsibility.  Maintenance should be performed regularly to ensure your system is secure. Many of these tasks can be automated. Your specific setup will dictate additional tasks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Maintenance

Your system is your own responsibility. Maintenance should be performed regularly to ensure your system is secure. Many of these tasks can be automated. Your specific setup will dictate additional tasks. 
```

> | Task | Justification|

Reviewer 2: Same as above, let's avoid tables here.

| --- | --- |

> | Check [security advisories](www.home-assistant.io/blog/categories/public-service-announcement/) | An informed user is able to make better decisions than an uninformed user. |

Reviewer 2: The link description and link destination do not match. We do not have a place with security advisories.

Author: Updated to Check [Home Assistant Alerts](https://alerts.home-assistant.io/)

Author: > Nevertheless, from that perspective, I think it would be more interesting to provide information on what to do if a security incident occurred.

What do you have in mind?  The Check Home Assistant Alerts is part of Maintenance currently.

Author: Added section on Disaster/data leakage Recovery to address security incidents.

> | Read [Release Notes](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/releases/) before updating. | Breaking changes can occur and you can read the release notes to identify problems and find workarounds. |

Reviewer 2: This is general upgrade advice, feels a bit misplaced on this page. This would belong on the page with the upgrade instructions.

Author: These aren't all upgrade items.  Some of them are general maintenance and don't belong on Upgrade page.  

All of these are standard security-driven tasks.  They are all good advice because they improve security.  All of these are outlined in every book on security aimed at improving basic understanding of security.  The more advanced ones or offensive security books (like CEH), skip most of theses.    Each of the maintenance tasks here fall squarely in the security domain.

Author: Removed.

> | Perform [Snapshots](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#snapshots). | Snapshots are a quick way to get your system back up and running in the event of failure. |

Reviewer 3: Snapshots are specific to two install methods, there should be a pointer here to taking backups regardless of method.

Reviewer 2: Backing up was already mentioned above as well. As for the maintenance and upgrade process, this should be documented with the upgrade instructions, not on the security page.

Author: It's mentioned in two separate contexts.   This document is split in 3-contexts.  Initial Setup, Configuration Changes, and Maintenance.   If someone is trying to perform all maintenance tasks, they may not be performing configuration and could miss that task.    Is there a way to link bullets?

Author: Removed.

> | Ensure all [Updates](https://www.home-assistant.io/common-tasks/os/#update) are applied.  | Running older versions of Home Assistant can provide vulnerabilities which may be exploitable. |

Reviewer: See suggestion above on some (IMO) language improvements

Author: This will be addressed when moving away from tables.

| Update  [Encryption Certificates](/docs/configuration/securing/#remote-access). | TLS certs expire on a regular basis. Once expired your browser will not recognize them as valid. |

> | Prune Integrations/add-ons | Remove unused Integrations and add-ons to reduce your risk of exposure. |

Reviewer 4: https://alerts.home-assistant.io/
This is a good link to have, which should probably be at the top of this list.

Author: Great suggestion!  Thanks!
